README.md, before:

# pcap_flow

![Alt text](http://fmad.io/analytics/logo_flow_analyzer.png "fmadio flow analyzer logo")

displays flow information from pcap and can extract individual or all tcp streams

###Options

Command line options

```
-o <filename>                              | write filtered flows to the specified file name
                                           | for bulk tcp extraction this is the prefix filename
--packet-max  <number>                     | only process the first <number> packets
--extract <number>                         | extract FlowID <number> into the output PCAP file
--extract-tcp <number>                     | extract FlowID <number> as a TCP stream to the output file name
--extract-tcp-port <start port> <end port> | extract all TCP flows with the specified port in src or dest 
--stdin                                    | read pcap from stdin. e.g. zcat capture.pcap | pcap_flow --stdin
--disable-display                          | do not display flow information to stdout
--tcpheader                                | include header in tcp output stream 
```

###Examples


**1) generate flow information from a compressed pcap file**

```
zcat capture.pcap.gz | pcap_flows --stdin
```

2) output a specific flow to a seperate pcap file 

```
pcap_flows --extract 1234 raw_capture.pcap -o capture_flow_1234.pcap
```

3) extract a tcp stream from a pcap

```
pcap_flows --extract-tcp 1234 raw_capture.pcap -o capture_flow_as_tcp1234.pcap
```

3) extract all tcp streams from port 80 to port 80 

Note: this can generate a very large number of files (one per stream) in the output directory. e.g. /tmp/tcp_stream_directory/extract_192.168.1.1-80->12345.pcap 

```
pcap_flows /mnt/capture/hitcon_small.pcap --extract-tcp-port 80 80 -o ./tmp/port80_

$ ls tmp/port80* | wc -l
20217

$ hexdump -Cv "tmp/port80__00:10:18:72:00:3c->e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1_117. 27.153. 29-> 10.  5.  9.102_    80-> 62374" | head
00000000  48 54 54 50 2f 31 2e 31  20 32 30 30 20 4f 4b 0d  |HTTP/1.1 200 OK.|
00000010  0a 53 65 72 76 65 72 3a  20 6e 67 69 6e 78 0d 0a  |.Server: nginx..|
00000020  44 61 74 65 3a 20 46 72  69 2c 20 30 38 20 41 75  |Date: Fri, 08 Au|
00000030  67 20 32 30 31 34 20 31  37 3a 34 39 3a 35 38 20  |g 2014 17:49:58 |
00000040  47 4d 54 0d 0a 43 6f 6e  74 65 6e 74 2d 54 79 70  |GMT..Content-Typ|
00000050  65 3a 20 69 6d 61 67 65  2f 6a 70 65 67 0d 0a 43  |e: image/jpeg..C|
00000060  6f 6e 74 65 6e 74 2d 4c  65 6e 67 74 68 3a 20 31  |ontent-Length: 1|
00000070  32 32 33 32 0d 0a 43 6f  6e 6e 65 63 74 69 6f 6e  |2232..Connection|
00000080  3a 20 63 6c 6f 73 65 0d  0a 4c 61 73 74 2d 4d 6f  |: close..Last-Mo|
00000090  64 69 66 69 65 64 3a 20  54 75 65 2c 20 32 39 20  |dified: Tue, 29 |


```


### TCP Output format 

The default TCP Output format is a flat linear file of the re-assemabled TCP stream. However with the --tcpheader flag each succesfully re-assembled TCP segment contains a header making the outputed TCP stream "TCP Stream PCAP". The header format is: 


```

typedef struct
{
    u64     TS;                 // nanoseccond timestamp 
    u16     Length;             // number of bytes in this packet
    u16     StreamID;           // unique id per flow

} TCPOutputHeader_t;


```

This allows parsing a TCP stream is like parsing a UDP packet stream. Each outputed TCP packet is a single reassembled TCP segment written in-order, with no re-sends and no sequence gaps. 


### Output

Display flow info from hitcon defcon CTF capture


```

pcap_flows  /hitcon.pcap  --flow-packet-min 1000

1048549 FlowID:   592897 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5. 17.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  43942 ->   8888  |             4,102 Pkts           288,909 Bytes
1048550 FlowID:   761379 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5.  3.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  48716 ->   8888  |             4,113 Pkts           289,197 Bytes
1048551 FlowID:   981924 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5.  7.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  42653 ->   8888  |             4,183 Pkts           294,250 Bytes
1048552 FlowID:   642639 | TCP  e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 -> 00:10:18:72:00:3c |  10.  5.  9.102 ->  17.253.  2.226 |  63281 ->     80  |             4,301 Pkts           295,014 Bytes
1048553 FlowID:   902015 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5. 12.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  36486 ->   8888  |             4,352 Pkts           305,988 Bytes
1048554 FlowID:    53839 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5. 16.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  43103 ->   8888  |             4,715 Pkts           331,990 Bytes
1048555 FlowID:   658515 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5. 15.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  45683 ->   8888  |             4,786 Pkts           337,001 Bytes
1048556 FlowID:    33656 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 | 130.204. 67.136 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |   9025 ->  56574  |             4,930 Pkts           537,324 Bytes
1048557 FlowID:   643944 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5. 10.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  44934 ->   8888  |             4,995 Pkts           351,892 Bytes
1048558 FlowID:     8462 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5.  2.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  41809 ->   8888  |             5,126 Pkts           360,763 Bytes
1048559 FlowID:   627433 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5.  8.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  44283 ->   8888  |             5,394 Pkts           379,946 Bytes
1048560 FlowID:    88064 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 | 140.115. 50. 51 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |     22 ->  42271  |             6,102 Pkts           417,083 Bytes
1048561 FlowID:    24006 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 |  74.125.129.189 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |    443 ->  61860  |             6,502 Pkts           658,192 Bytes
1048562 FlowID:   785299 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 |  10.  5.  6.108 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |     80 ->  53303  |             6,559 Pkts         9,849,540 Bytes
1048563 FlowID:    23999 | TCP  e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 -> 00:10:18:72:00:3c |  10.  5.  9.102 ->  74.125.129.189 |  61860 ->    443  |             6,588 Pkts         2,583,463 Bytes
1048564 FlowID:    33651 | TCP  e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 -> 00:10:18:72:00:3c |  10.  5.  9.102 -> 130.204. 67.136 |  56574 ->   9025  |             6,609 Pkts           622,258 Bytes
1048565 FlowID:  1005605 | TCP  e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 -> 00:10:18:72:00:3c |  10.  5.  9.102 ->  10.  5.  6.108 |  63779 ->     80  |             7,149 Pkts           453,291 Bytes
1048566 FlowID:   786260 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 |  10.  5.  6.108 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |     80 ->  53413  |             8,367 Pkts        12,625,278 Bytes
1048567 FlowID:   642795 | TCP  e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 -> 00:10:18:72:00:3c |  10.  5.  9.102 ->  54.183.128. 64 |  52940 ->  22222  |            10,502 Pkts         2,409,657 Bytes
1048568 FlowID:    88059 | TCP  e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 -> 00:10:18:72:00:3c |  10.  5.  9.102 -> 140.115. 50. 51 |  42271 ->     22  |            10,955 Pkts        16,496,355 Bytes
1048569 FlowID:        1 | TCP  e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 -> 00:10:18:72:00:3c |  10.  5.  9.102 ->  54.183.128. 64 |  51697 ->  22222  |            11,666 Pkts         3,839,832 Bytes
1048570 FlowID:  1005606 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 |  10.  5.  6.108 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |     80 ->  63779  |            14,670 Pkts        21,774,873 Bytes
1048571 FlowID:        2 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 |  54.183.128. 64 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |  22222 ->  51697  |            16,714 Pkts         1,830,744 Bytes
1048572 FlowID:   642798 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 |  54.183.128. 64 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |  22222 ->  52940  |            16,997 Pkts         1,921,123 Bytes
1048573 FlowID:   642638 | TCP  e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 -> 00:10:18:72:00:3c |  10.  5.  9.102 ->  17.253.  2.226 |  63280 ->     80  |            98,135 Pkts         6,584,162 Bytes
1048574 FlowID:   642642 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 |  17.253.  2.226 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |     80 ->  63280  |           115,911 Pkts       245,630,927 Bytes
```

Extract only port 80 traffic from hitcon.pcap to a seperate file. This is the individual TCP port 80 -> 63280 flow.

1048574 **FlowID:   642642** | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 |  17.253.  2.226 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |     80 ->  63280  |           115,911 Pkts       245,630,927 Bytes

```
$ pcap_flows  hitcon.pcap  --extract 642642 -o /mnt/capture/hitcon_http.pcap --disable-display 

writing PCAP to [/mnt/capture/hitcon_http.pcap]
[/mnt/capture/hitcon_small.pcap] FileSize: 2GB
[02:00:30.000.332.313 0.000%] Flows:2 0.00M Pkts 0.000Gbps : 0.00GB Out:0.00GB
[05:10:22.000.316.568 0.307%] Flows:899478 2.66M Pkts 7.419Gbps : 0.79GB Out:0.25GB
[02:27:22.000.060.690 0.816%] Flows:1048576 9.71M Pkts 12.695Gbps : 2.16GB Out:0.25GB
```

Commit message:

add ip range filtering & port filtering to an output pcap

README.md, after:

# pcap_flow

![Alt text](http://fmad.io/analytics/logo_flow_analyzer.png "fmadio flow analyzer logo")

displays flow information from pcap and can extract individual or all tcp streams

###Options

Command line options

```
-o <filename>                              | write filtered flows to the specified file name
                                           | for bulk tcp extraction this is the prefix filename
--packet-max  <number>                     | only process the first <number> packets
--extract <number>                         | extract FlowID <number> into the output PCAP file
--extract-tcp <number>                     | extract FlowID <number> as a TCP stream to the output file name
--extract-tcp-port <start port> <end port> | extract all TCP flows with the specified port in src or dest 
--extract-ip 1.2.3.4/255.255.255.255       | extract all IP`s matching the sepcificed mask into the output PCAP
--extract-port <start port> <end port>     | extract all UDP/TCP packets matching the range into a seperate PCAP 
--stdin                                    | read pcap from stdin. e.g. zcat capture.pcap | pcap_flow --stdin
--disable-display                          | do not display flow information to stdout
--tcpheader                                | include header in tcp output stream 
```

###Examples


**1) generate flow information from a compressed pcap file**

```
zcat capture.pcap.gz | pcap_flows --stdin
```

2) output a specific flow to a seperate pcap file 

```
pcap_flows --extract 1234 raw_capture.pcap -o capture_flow_1234.pcap
```

3) extract a tcp stream from a pcap

```
pcap_flows --extract-tcp 1234 raw_capture.pcap -o capture_flow_as_tcp1234.pcap
```

3) extract all tcp streams from port 80 to port 80 

Note: this can generate a very large number of files (one per stream) in the output directory. e.g. /tmp/tcp_stream_directory/extract_192.168.1.1-80->12345.pcap 

```
pcap_flows /mnt/capture/hitcon_small.pcap --extract-tcp-port 80 80 -o ./tmp/port80_

$ ls tmp/port80* | wc -l
20217

$ hexdump -Cv "tmp/port80__00:10:18:72:00:3c->e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1_117. 27.153. 29-> 10.  5.  9.102_    80-> 62374" | head
00000000  48 54 54 50 2f 31 2e 31  20 32 30 30 20 4f 4b 0d  |HTTP/1.1 200 OK.|
00000010  0a 53 65 72 76 65 72 3a  20 6e 67 69 6e 78 0d 0a  |.Server: nginx..|
00000020  44 61 74 65 3a 20 46 72  69 2c 20 30 38 20 41 75  |Date: Fri, 08 Au|
00000030  67 20 32 30 31 34 20 31  37 3a 34 39 3a 35 38 20  |g 2014 17:49:58 |
00000040  47 4d 54 0d 0a 43 6f 6e  74 65 6e 74 2d 54 79 70  |GMT..Content-Typ|
00000050  65 3a 20 69 6d 61 67 65  2f 6a 70 65 67 0d 0a 43  |e: image/jpeg..C|
00000060  6f 6e 74 65 6e 74 2d 4c  65 6e 67 74 68 3a 20 31  |ontent-Length: 1|
00000070  32 32 33 32 0d 0a 43 6f  6e 6e 65 63 74 69 6f 6e  |2232..Connection|
00000080  3a 20 63 6c 6f 73 65 0d  0a 4c 61 73 74 2d 4d 6f  |: close..Last-Mo|
00000090  64 69 66 69 65 64 3a 20  54 75 65 2c 20 32 39 20  |dified: Tue, 29 |


```


### TCP Output format 

The default TCP Output format is a flat linear file of the re-assemabled TCP stream. However with the --tcpheader flag each succesfully re-assembled TCP segment contains a header. The header format is: 


```

typedef struct
{
    u64     TS;                 // nanoseccond timestamp 
    u16     Length;             // number of bytes in this packet
    u16     StreamID;           // unique id per flow

} TCPOutputHeader_t;


```

This allows parsing a TCP stream is like parsing a UDP packet stream. Each outputed TCP packet is a single reassembled TCP segment written in-order, with no re-sends and no sequence gaps. 


### Output

Display flow info from hitcon defcon CTF capture


```

pcap_flows  /hitcon.pcap  --flow-packet-min 1000

1048549 FlowID:   592897 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5. 17.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  43942 ->   8888  |             4,102 Pkts           288,909 Bytes
1048550 FlowID:   761379 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5.  3.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  48716 ->   8888  |             4,113 Pkts           289,197 Bytes
1048551 FlowID:   981924 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5.  7.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  42653 ->   8888  |             4,183 Pkts           294,250 Bytes
1048552 FlowID:   642639 | TCP  e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 -> 00:10:18:72:00:3c |  10.  5.  9.102 ->  17.253.  2.226 |  63281 ->     80  |             4,301 Pkts           295,014 Bytes
1048553 FlowID:   902015 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5. 12.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  36486 ->   8888  |             4,352 Pkts           305,988 Bytes
1048554 FlowID:    53839 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5. 16.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  43103 ->   8888  |             4,715 Pkts           331,990 Bytes
1048555 FlowID:   658515 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5. 15.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  45683 ->   8888  |             4,786 Pkts           337,001 Bytes
1048556 FlowID:    33656 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 | 130.204. 67.136 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |   9025 ->  56574  |             4,930 Pkts           537,324 Bytes
1048557 FlowID:   643944 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5. 10.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  44934 ->   8888  |             4,995 Pkts           351,892 Bytes
1048558 FlowID:     8462 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5.  2.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  41809 ->   8888  |             5,126 Pkts           360,763 Bytes
1048559 FlowID:   627433 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> 00:16:3e:ef:36:38 |  10.  5.  8.  2 ->  10.  5.  9.  2 |  44283 ->   8888  |             5,394 Pkts           379,946 Bytes
1048560 FlowID:    88064 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 | 140.115. 50. 51 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |     22 ->  42271  |             6,102 Pkts           417,083 Bytes
1048561 FlowID:    24006 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 |  74.125.129.189 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |    443 ->  61860  |             6,502 Pkts           658,192 Bytes
1048562 FlowID:   785299 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 |  10.  5.  6.108 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |     80 ->  53303  |             6,559 Pkts         9,849,540 Bytes
1048563 FlowID:    23999 | TCP  e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 -> 00:10:18:72:00:3c |  10.  5.  9.102 ->  74.125.129.189 |  61860 ->    443  |             6,588 Pkts         2,583,463 Bytes
1048564 FlowID:    33651 | TCP  e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 -> 00:10:18:72:00:3c |  10.  5.  9.102 -> 130.204. 67.136 |  56574 ->   9025  |             6,609 Pkts           622,258 Bytes
1048565 FlowID:  1005605 | TCP  e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 -> 00:10:18:72:00:3c |  10.  5.  9.102 ->  10.  5.  6.108 |  63779 ->     80  |             7,149 Pkts           453,291 Bytes
1048566 FlowID:   786260 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 |  10.  5.  6.108 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |     80 ->  53413  |             8,367 Pkts        12,625,278 Bytes
1048567 FlowID:   642795 | TCP  e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 -> 00:10:18:72:00:3c |  10.  5.  9.102 ->  54.183.128. 64 |  52940 ->  22222  |            10,502 Pkts         2,409,657 Bytes
1048568 FlowID:    88059 | TCP  e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 -> 00:10:18:72:00:3c |  10.  5.  9.102 -> 140.115. 50. 51 |  42271 ->     22  |            10,955 Pkts        16,496,355 Bytes
1048569 FlowID:        1 | TCP  e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 -> 00:10:18:72:00:3c |  10.  5.  9.102 ->  54.183.128. 64 |  51697 ->  22222  |            11,666 Pkts         3,839,832 Bytes
1048570 FlowID:  1005606 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 |  10.  5.  6.108 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |     80 ->  63779  |            14,670 Pkts        21,774,873 Bytes
1048571 FlowID:        2 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 |  54.183.128. 64 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |  22222 ->  51697  |            16,714 Pkts         1,830,744 Bytes
1048572 FlowID:   642798 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 |  54.183.128. 64 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |  22222 ->  52940  |            16,997 Pkts         1,921,123 Bytes
1048573 FlowID:   642638 | TCP  e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 -> 00:10:18:72:00:3c |  10.  5.  9.102 ->  17.253.  2.226 |  63280 ->     80  |            98,135 Pkts         6,584,162 Bytes
1048574 FlowID:   642642 | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 |  17.253.  2.226 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |     80 ->  63280  |           115,911 Pkts       245,630,927 Bytes
```

Extract only port 80 traffic from hitcon.pcap to a seperate file. This is the individual TCP port 80 -> 63280 flow.

1048574 **FlowID:   642642** | TCP  00:10:18:72:00:3c -> e0:3f:49:6a:af:a1 |  17.253.  2.226 ->  10.  5.  9.102 |     80 ->  63280  |           115,911 Pkts       245,630,927 Bytes

```
$ pcap_flows  hitcon.pcap  --extract 642642 -o /mnt/capture/hitcon_http.pcap --disable-display 

writing PCAP to [/mnt/capture/hitcon_http.pcap]
[/mnt/capture/hitcon_small.pcap] FileSize: 2GB
[02:00:30.000.332.313 0.000%] Flows:2 0.00M Pkts 0.000Gbps : 0.00GB Out:0.00GB
[05:10:22.000.316.568 0.307%] Flows:899478 2.66M Pkts 7.419Gbps : 0.79GB Out:0.25GB
[02:27:22.000.060.690 0.816%] Flows:1048576 9.71M Pkts 12.695Gbps : 2.16GB Out:0.25GB
```
